come down 1) If the cost, level, or amount of something comes down, it becomes less than it was before. [V ] Interest rates should come down... [V to/from ] If you buy three bottles, the bottle price comes down to 2 pounds... [V by ] The price of petrol is coming down by four pence a gallon. 2) If something comes down, it falls to the ground. [V ] The cold rain came down... [V ] The curtain came down after the first act... [V ] A Boeing 737 came down on the M1 motorway. 3) -> See also come-down
come down 1) уменьшаться, снижаться The price came down. — Цена снизилась. My weight has come down again. — Я снова похудел(а). Syn: decrease 2., drop 2., fall I 2., go down Ant: go up , increase 2., rise 2. 2) быть поваленным (о дереве) , сбитым (о самолёте) , снесённым, разрушенным (о строении) Several trees came down in last night's storm. — Вчерашний ураган повалил несколько деревьев. Three of the enemy planes came down in the battle. — В бою были сбиты три вражеских самолёта. The old hotel is coming down and a new one is to be built. — Старый отель скоро снесут и на его месте построят новый. 3) приезжать из столицы на периферию, из центра на окраину, с севера на юг Ant: go up 4) вернуться после окончания курса из университета домой; окончить университет I can't come down till I've finished my last examinations. — Я не смогу уехать, пока не сдам последний экзамен. He has come down from Oxford with a history degree . — Он только что окончил Оксфорд с дипломом историка. Ant: go up 5) раскошелиться; расщедриться It is time for you now to come down with money for his education. — Сейчас самое время, чтобы ты выложил деньги на его образование. 6) перестать испытывать воздействие наркотического вещества He hadn't come down from the drug by the time he got home. — Он всё ещё находился под действием наркотика, когда вернулся домой. 7) (come down (up)on) бранить, ругать, наказывать The director came down on Jim for being late again. — Директор отчитал Джима за очередное опоздание. 8) (come down (up)on) требовать (чего-л.) Mother came down on me to clean my room. — Мама сказала, чтобы я обязательно убрался в своей комнате. 9) (come down to) рассматривать что-л., обращаться к чему-л. When we come down to details, the plan seems possible. — Если рассмотреть всё в деталях, план кажется выполнимым. 10) (come down with) слечь (с какой-л. болезнью) ; заболеть (чем-л.) Jane has come down with a bad cold. — Джейн слегла с серьёзной простудой. Syn: catch 2., contract 2., go down with 11) решать, принимать решение (в чью-л. пользу) to come down in favour of / on the side of smb. / smth. — принимать решение в пользу кого-л. / чего-л., вставать на сторону кого-л. / чего-л. The Court appears to come down in favour of the company. — Кажется, суд склоняется на сторону компании. The document does not come down in favour of one particular system. — В документе не отдаётся предпочтения той или иной системе. The chairman will have to come down on one side or the other soon. — Скоро председателю придётся сделать выбор и поддержать одну из сторон. •• - come down in the world - come down to earth with a bump - come down to earth
